# LymphoSeq2_Shiny

LymphoSeq2_Shiny is an interactive web application of [LymphoSeq2](https://github.com/shashidhar22/LymphoSeq2/tree/v0.0.0.9000) built with the R/Shiny package. This Shiny application will allow you to upload Adaptive Immune Receptor Repertoire Sequencing (AIRR-seq) data to display and perform various analytical visualizations. All graphical visualizations are available to be downloaded as PDF or RData files. All Data tables will be available to be downloaded as TSV, Excel, and RData files.

## Required Packages

The following packages are used by LymphoSeq2_Shiny and will need to be installed through the R console (if not already) before running the application: 

1. shiny
2. shinyjs
3. shinycssloaders
4. shinytheme
5. shinyalert
6. ggplot2
7. plotly
8. DT
9. heatmaply
10. pheatmap
11. wordcloud2
12. tidyverse
13. htmltools
14. sp
15. writexl

These packages will also need to be installed under special instructions:

1. LymphoSeq2
   
   The **LymphoSeq2** package can be installed from Github:
   ```
   # install the devtools package first (if not already)
   install.packages("devtools")
   
   # load devtools package
   library(devtools)

   devtools::install_github("shashidhar22/LymphoSeq2", build_vignette = FALSE)
   ```

2. ggalluvial
  
   This application uses the developmental version of **ggalluvial** and needs to be installed from Github using the following commands:
   ```
   # install the remotes package first (if not already)
   install.packages("remotes")
   
   # load remotes package
   library(remotes)
  
   remotes::install_github("corybrunson/ggalluvial@main", build_vignettes = FALSE)
   ```
3. chorddiag
   
   The **chordiagg** package may be incomaptible with newer versions of R. If this is the case, the developmental package will need to be installed directly from Github using the `devtools` package:
   ```
   devtools::install_github("mattflor/chorddiag", build_vignettes = FALSE)
   ```

## Running the Application

The **Shiny** package must first be loaded into the R session. Then, to start the application, simply execute Shiny's `runApp` function.

```
# load the Shiny package
library(shiny)

# run the application (assuming current directory is LymphoSeq2_Shiny)
runApp("LymphoSeq2_app/")
```

## Using the Application

The first step in using the application is to select files to upload. Files currently accepted are .tsv files generated by [Adaptive Biotechnologies' ImmunoSEQ assay](https://www.immunoseq.com) or RData files containing preprocessed summary tables. Once uploaded, data tables in the .tsv files will be standardized into [Adaptive Immune Receptor Repertoire (AIRR)](https://docs.airr-community.org/en/latest/index.html) format.

